Hello YouTube. Hello Brian. Hello Seth. Hey. Hello. Hey, thanks for everyone watching the
video here. If you got questions and you're watching live, throw them in the live chat.
As you know, we'll try to make them part of the show. And with that, let's kick this off,
you guys. Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines
directly to your earbuds. This is the Big Episode 300, recorded September 6, 2022. I'm
Michael Kennedy.
And I'm Brian Okken.
And I'm Seth Larson.
And this episode is brought to you by Microsoft for Startups Founder's Hub. More about them
later. Seth, welcome to the show.
Thanks for having me. This is so exciting. I didn't realize it was going to be a 300.
hit the jackpot. This is the big one. The big one for at least two more years, I would say.
Yeah. And Brian, how about that? 300 episodes.
That's amazing. When did we start this? We should look this up.
Must have been a while ago. I don't know. I mean, that's 5.7692307 years. Like that's
almost six years.
Amazing.
Actually, I have a reason that I'm so focused on floating point numbers and large numbers.
We're going to get to that at the end of the show.
2016 we started November 2016. That's cool. Absolutely. Yeah.
Very cool. Indeed. David says, congrats on 300. Thank you, David.
Thank you for being here. Indeed. Awesome. All right.
I, I've been thinking about wheels and packages lately.
Yeah. You were thinking about the phrase rolling,
rolling wheel gathers no moss or something like that.
How it goes in programming. No, I wasn't thinking about that at all.
- Yeah, well, what were you thinking about?
Tell us about it.
- Okay, so I was thinking about actually
using different packaging tools
'cause pyproject.toml is supported by tons of stuff now.
Well, by tons of stuff, I mean like three that I know of.
So we've got Flit, well, Poetry also,
but I don't use Poetry.
Anyway, I've been using Flit and Hatch and Setup tools,
which are all really easy to use
with pyproject.toml lately.
And I've been using like the flit method of building wheels
and hatch and Python, the build package also Python
or the, if you just pip install build,
you can do Python dash M build to build stuff,
which is fun.
But since I've been building all these,
I've been using a lot of tools to try to like check
these wheels to make sure that they're the packages
and wheels are what I expect is inside.
So there's this, there's a few tools I'm using.
One is wheel inspect.
And this one, actually, it's kind of cool.
You can use it programmatically if you want.
I'm not, I'm using the,
it comes with this thing called wheel to Jason.
And it, if you run that on a wheel
and you give it a wheel name,
it just pops out all like dumps the Jason information
about the wheel.
And I've been using this to just,
I'll use different ways to build things
and then dump this into a file and do a diff
to just sort of see what's going on,
to make sure I got the description correct
or everything's right.
And just 'cause I'm curious if all of these tools
are building this kind of the same thing,
and they kind of are, there's slight differences,
but it's neat that there's so many options now.
So Wheel Inspect is really cool for wheels.
I'm also using a thing called check wheel contents.
And this is kind of like a linter for wheels.
So if you throw this at,
because it's possible to make valid wheels
that don't have really anything in them,
or they don't have the thing that you thought was in there.
So this is a linter that goes through
and it gives you a whole bunch of warnings and stuff.
If you can kind of look through like W001,
W001 wheel contains a PYC and PYO files.
Like somehow you've configured it wrong to grab that.
And I don't know how you would do that for the lot of stuff,
but with Flit, if you have,
possibly if you accidentally threw those in your Git,
because Flit just grabs anything that's checked in,
I think, or committed.
Duplicate files, it checks for that.
So it checks for a whole bunch of stuff.
So this is handy just to check as well.
But the powerhouse that I'm using,
of course, is just TOCS.
I kind of wanted to cover the other ones
'cause they're fun,
but I wanted to remind people
that one of the great things about TOCS
is it builds things on its own.
So when you run TOCS on a package,
it will build the package,
then install it into an environment,
and then you run your tests.
We think of it as more of a test runner,
but it does that whole packaging loop also.
And then the fourth way, I don't have a slide for this,
but the fourth way that I've been doing
is you can just push them into a Git repo
and then you can do the pip install git plus
and then the repo name thing.
And pip will use your packaging tools
to create the wheel before it installs it.
So that's another way to check your packaging.
So, anyway.
- I'm always super paranoid whenever I configure something
to do with packages.
So my method tends to be just unzip the wheel
as a zip file and see what's in there, see what landed.
- I didn't try that.
So what does that do?
If you just unzip it.
- Way number five, Brian.
- Yeah.
So does it just zip, unpacks it in place then?
- Yeah, wheels are technically zip files.
So you can unzip them and just inspect
what made it in there.
- Okay.
- Yeah, put a dot zip extension on it
and then you can just put zip tools on it and off it goes.
- So it must store the metadata somewhere then also though.
- Yeah, there's a top level like metadata file
that says all the things that it's about.
- I love the pun in the chat.
We got from PyLang, "Wheel good stuff, Brian."
(both laughing)
- Brian, that was real good stuff.
Thanks for bringing it.
Yeah, so onto the next one for mine, huh?
- Yeah.
- Before we jump onto it, you see I have my race jersey on
because the Portland Grand Prix IndyCar race
was here this weekend, so people listening
and were close by, they missed it,
but next September, be sure to go, it was really, really fun.
Three days of racing, very nice.
- Were they fast cars?
- They were, yeah, it was IndyCars,
they were like, they were very fast.
But they had no AI, no artificial intelligence yet
from what I understand, but if you look over on fast.ai,
there's something that anybody who does proper data science
is gonna be pretty jazzed about.
So Jupyter notebooks are notoriously bad citizens
of source control and get and tools like that.
The reasons are basically whenever you have a notebook file,
if you've ever run it,
the output and the order in which the cells were run
and the number of times the cells was run is stored in there.
That's not great if someone gets the file and runs it,
someone else gets it and runs it,
and then you try to put it into source control.
That's a problem, right?
I mean, when you and I work on our code,
we have Python files, the output goes somewhere,
we check it in, the source code goes in.
But with Jupyter, the outputs go in.
not just the outputs, but the memory address
of some of the object used in the address.
So even if it's you running it twice,
you get merge conflicts,
which is not the coolest thing ever.
I suspect that this goes by the name
the Jupyter Plus Git Problem,
where really it should be the Jupyter Plus
VS, Visual, Version Control System, VCS,
because it doesn't matter what you're using.
Anything that just diffs files is gonna hate this.
Anyway, the article and the feature really that I want to talk about is the Jupyter Git
problem is now solved from Jeremy Howard over at fast.ai.
The solution may surprise you.
So it talks a little bit about the challenges here and it says, it's interesting, it speaks
in terms that are not really developer oriented.
It speaks more in terms of like end users.
or like the way that maybe a first year science student
might experience what the problem is,
not the way a seasoned data scientist would.
Like for example, here's the problem.
The problem is when you're collaborating with others
over Git, you literally can't load your notebook
if you both try to check it in because it's broken.
Well, what does broken mean?
Broken means it has merge conflicts written into it.
That's really the problem is you can easily solve
this problem if you accept their changes
or accept your changes.
But then you're losing data, right?
So anyway, this is OK.
Let's look inside.
Well, there's JSON, and then there's the head,
and then the SHA diff error.
So I kind of already described this,
but they do go into examples of--
for example, when you're talking about--
hold on one second.
For example, when you're talking about matplotlib
or something like that, you'll have things like matplotlib.axes.subplot.axes
subplot at some memory address, which is suboptimal, let's say.
Yeah, there's a lot of axes.
That's right.
Then non-determining outputs and so on.
It says, OK, we identified two categories of problems here.
And I would like to say this is only accurate
if you have zero based indexes when you start counting.
So we've identified in Michael's term, three problems here.
One, Jupyter Notebook formats are fundamentally incompatible
with version control.
Problem zero.
Problem one, Git conflicts lead to broken notebooks.
There we go.
And many of these, almost all of these conflicts
are unnecessary because metadata, like the environment,
the machine name and stuff that it was run on,
as well as the memory address of the objects
is stored inside the file.
So what do you do?
Well, there was this thing called
nbdev that would allow you to clean the file.
I think it was nbdev that would let you clean it.
There's other ways to clean it within Jupyter as well.
You can say, I'm only going to commit to version control
the empty version, right?
You can say clear all cells and then commit that.
Then that would be fine
'cause you're wiping all that data out.
However, sometimes that data is incredibly hard to compute.
Right, I have a picture.
The picture comes from an hour
of doing training machine models
and then processing a gig of data
and then looking at this picture.
If I don't clear it and I check it in,
the picture's right there, you know what I mean?
or some of the outputs are right there.
So there's a huge reason to not clear it
because it might be incredibly hard to regenerate it.
Maybe on the system you're on,
you can't even run the code necessary, right?
You don't have access to the database or whatever.
So here's what they did.
There's a new NBDev named NBDev2 as part of the name,
not a version, but the name.
And this comes from the folks at Fast.ai.
And here's how it works.
It has a new merge driver for Git.
Okay, instead of like processing the files,
it says, what we're gonna do is we're gonna set up hooks
in Git so when there is a merge,
our special Python code that understands notebooks
will present a different view for you.
I know. (laughs)
And there's a new save hook for Jupyter
that automatically removes the unnecessary metadata
and non-deterministic cell output.
So what you'll get is when you open up this conflicting
notebook in Jupyter, you'll actually
have the diff shown instead of having a corrupted notebook.
Additionally, it drops out the metadata.
So you get these unnecessary ones are just kind of gone.
So it talks about some interesting things
that you can do there.
You've got to run nbdev install hooks to get it set up
and some other various things.
There's also a lot of history on what has been done before,
what are some of the other alternatives,
but the big takeaway is the folks over at Fast.ai
have been using this internally for several months
and they say it has transformed their workflow.
It's totally solved this problem.
And the reason they care so much
is almost all of their work,
their unit tests, their documentation, their actual code,
everything is in notebooks.
They're like all in on notebooks.
So having Git be a first-class citizen
is obviously important.
So I recommend people check this out.
Postscript side bonus here is
there's another thing called review in B.
Review in B is about reviewing, say, a GitHub pull request.
So somebody fixes a bug in a notebook and they do a PR
and say, oh, you were generating this graph wrong.
You should have passed this parameter,
which means a totally different thing.
Wouldn't it be nice to have a picture
of the before graph and the after graph?
with this review in B, that's exactly what you get.
So you get your code diff,
but then you also get the output diff,
which might be a Matplotlib picture.
Isn't that cool?
- That's really cool.
- I'd be surprised if GitHub doesn't have this eventually.
I mean, this seems like a logical next step.
- Yeah, it sure does, right?
Notebooks are so important.
- Yeah.
- Right, but it's not just GitHub though.
So some people are using Git just straight, so.
- Exactly.
or GitLab or whatever.
- This is pretty neat.
One of the things I really like about this
is all the other solutions that we've tried and everything.
I mean, data science people are really good
about covering that sort of stuff
where a lot of other people are like,
"Hey, I came up with a problem, I solved it."
Maybe some other people have solved it also,
but yeah, whatever.
- Exactly.
- I will say this set of tools
like exactly solves a problem I had not that long ago.
So this is great.
- Okay, so this really resonates with you, huh?
- This resonates with me, yeah.
Using notebooks for documentation
and as a part of like an integration test suite,
like this is great.
- Yeah, very cool.
Piling on the audience's,
ah, so it looks like you can actually resolve
merge conflicts inside the notebooks
rather than traditionally ignore conflicts.
I believe so as well.
I think there's like a merge inside of Jupyter
type of thing you can do.
- Hmm, neat.
- Yeah, that's it, I haven't totally used it.
Anyway, if you're into data science or,
put that aside, if you do Jupyter
and you care about source control,
this looks really helpful.
- Which you should care about source control.
- Yes, exactly.
- Yeah.
- So if you use Jupyter.
Full stop, there you go.
Awesome, all right.
Seth, over to you.
Before we jump into the first topic you want to talk about,
though, just real quick, we were so excited about episode 300,
I didn't give you a chance to introduce yourself properly.
So give us a quick background on you
and then tell us about your item.
- Yeah, so I'm currently an engineer at Elastic,
working on the language clients team.
Previously, I was the maintainer of the well-known
within the Python community, the Elasticsearch client.
Now I'm doing tech leadership for that same team.
And then in terms of open source work,
I am a maintainer of many different Python packages,
most notably your lib three,
which is most downloaded Python package.
And it's one of the dependencies of requests and Bodo
and a whole bunch of other really foundational packages.
- That's incredible.
Does it make you nervous to make changes to it?
- Oh yeah, so the very first time
that I became lead maintainer and had to make a release,
It was, I actually spent multiple hours just kind of
looking through the wheels and the source distributions
and making sure that everything was right.
It was a tough day, honestly.
- Yeah, so that chat with that Brian opened with you,
you've been there as well, huh?
All right, well, what's your first item for us?
- Yeah, so my first item is about trust stores.
So this is about like certificates that you use
to verify HTTPS connections.
And so this is a library that me and David Glick have worked together to implement.
And it's essentially trying to solve the problem of certify with Python
and how it kind of interacts with certificates that aren't necessarily trusted by the greater world.
So for example, if you have like a corporate proxy,
if your company is installing a certificate on your behalf,
enable to do proxying of some sort. Certified just doesn't
work with that. And you get these errors that are kind of
insurmountable, you get errors that require really low level
debugging knowledge to figure out. And so we went and
anything, anything that has to do with certificates. Oh, it is
wrong. It's just like, well, that's never gonna work. I guess
we're done here. It's just so hard to understand, right?
I'm on a campaign to make it so no one on the world needs to
type verify equals false ever again. That's my mission.
So awesome. Also you spoke about certify like tell us what give us the background. I'm not
sure we all know what certified as sure. Yes. Certify is essentially every web browser like
Chrome and Firefox and all that. They have a bundle a group of certificates that they
are marking as these are trusted and they kind of bundle those along with every single
web browser, right? And so Mozilla, because it's open source, it open sources its TrustStore.
And so what Certify is, is it's a small, really thin wrapper Python package around that bundle.
And it allows Python to make HTTPS connections to websites essentially without having to
like rely on a certificate TrustStore being configured manually by the user. And so a
A lot of times because Python is installed on Windows or macOS,
but is relying on open SSL for a lot of its TLS.
It really requires a file to be there.
Like open SSL doesn't know anything about the system certificate trust or any of
that. It's very, it requires a file to be there.
And so certify is solving that problem.
I see. So if I went and installed it,
if I was on like Windows and installed it into the trusted root store or
something like that, it wouldn't, that wouldn't count,
that wouldn't be enough.
It wouldn't be enough.
Yeah.
Okay.
You would, there is a whole bunch of other things that you get also by using these native
operating system APIs for certificates like auto updates.
It can be centrally managed.
So you know, your IT department can click a button and update everyone's system trust
store.
So yeah, there's a lot of really good benefits to using the system trust store instead of
this Python managed file.
And this article kind of goes into the nitty gritty of that.
But the big announcement for this project was that pip actually, with the version 22.2
release, added support, experimental support for using this library instead of Certify
to verify HTTPS.
And so what this allowed people to do is try out TrustStore optionally, right, instead
of switching it to a default.
If they're experiencing this class of errors with installing Python packages or upgrading Python packages,
they can use one flag.
It's, I believe it's listed, either way it would be listed here.
So you do --use-feature=truststore.
And that will, you'll recognize that use feature flag for the 2020 resolver.
That's another feature flag that they use.
So this trust store feature flag is the same thing.
it will, if TrustStore is installed on your system,
it will use that instead of certify,
and it allows you to get around the errors that you can see when you have a corporate network involved.
So yeah, this is kind of the big thing that I'm really excited about,
and we're really hoping that in the future we can add this to Python,
maybe make this a default for requests,
like there's a whole bunch of different really interesting things that we can go forward with
if we can prove that, hey, this is useful to these users, right?
Yeah, yeah, fantastic.
So if I say --use feature=truststore,
do I have to previously have pip installed truststore or something like that?
You do have to have previously installed truststore.
So the package is relatively new, it's less than a year old.
And so to ensure that we're able to keep things moving,
because it's experimental,
We didn't want to bundle with pip, their release cycle is a lot longer.
I collaborated with Sue Ping for a good long while on this and making sure that everything was all good to go for pip since shipping with pip is a big deal.
So yeah, it's been a long road.
So yeah, this looks super useful.
Kim out in the audience says, I'd love to never need verify false again on my internal networks.
Seth's mission is fantastic.
Yeah, yeah, I'm very grateful that this work is going on. I hope that that's true because it drives me nuts
Is this something you have to deal with internally as well Brian? Yeah, because we've got
with you know internal network
corporate firewall we've got
the trust stores and on Windows systems and
It's it is an issue and we don't so a lot of I mean
One of the ways we get around it is to have an internal pipe. Yeah
we'll get a mirror inside.
But sometimes I wanna try out stuff that's not there.
So having something like this work would be good.
But it's not just PyPI, it's other places too.
- Yeah, the entire outside internet is usually impacted
when you have that sort of situation of a corporate proxy.
- Yeah, and I'd like to be able to,
so I'm guessing that this TrustStore,
I mean, using it within pip,
that'd be great for a lot of people to try it,
but trying out this trust store for applications
that depend on trusted sites,
that would be helpful as well, right?
- Yeah, so actually the documentation,
if you're trying to use it manually with other things,
we support your lib three aiohttp requests,
and I'm sure it'll work with other libraries as well.
- Nice, like HTTPX?
- Yeah, it should work with anything
that uses the standard SSL context like API.
As long as it can use that API, it should work with it.
- This is great, awesome.
- Very cool.
Nice work, thanks for coming on and sharing it.
Hopefully it makes corporate Python a little better.
This was long ago when I first started the podcast,
this one and Talk Python.
There was a lot of debate or discussion, I guess,
whether Python was an appropriate enterprise software
type of language.
You know, I think that debate is largely over.
And I think the reason it's over
is because the data scientists said,
this is not a debate.
Do you want us to do the job or not do the job?
Do the, that's right.
Okay, well, so let's use Python.
And then it kind of spread from there internally
through acceptance.
That said, like now that it does live in these environments
that Brian described much more frequently,
it's really important to have this support.
- Yeah.
- It's actually really funny because,
so to put this in perspective for Java folks,
this is like Java Trust Stores is like Certify,
where you have this manual thing that's shipped with Java
as opposed to just using the system.
And I got that comment on Lobster's or something
that was talking about this article,
and they were just like,
"Wow, this is like getting rid of Java Trust Stores.
This is great."
And I'm like, "Oh, I didn't even know that existed."
- That's right.
- I really hate it over there.
- Yeah, we hate this, so this is great.
I was like, okay, thank you.
- Awesome.
Cool, all right.
Well, before we get to the next topic, Brian,
let's talk about our sponsor for this weekend,
many weeks this year,
Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub.
If you are starting a business, doing a startup,
you are a little ways going
or you're just thinking about it,
you should really check this out
because Microsoft for Startups set out to understand
the challenges that we all have creating startups
in this digital cloud age,
and they created Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub
to help solve many of them.
So that includes getting cloud resources,
GitHub credits, other credits like AI credits,
for example, from OpenAI that you can run your code on,
But maybe even more important than that,
it has support for connecting you with mentors and experts
to make sure that you go in the right direction
when you're young and getting started.
So, so often you see the successful startups
being in places where there are a lot of mentors,
where there's these networks and people have connections
to get funding, the marketing side of things,
the product market fit, all of those things are super hard.
So if you are part of Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub,
you'll have access to their mentorship network,
which gives you access to hundreds of mentors
across a range of disciplines,
like the ones I just named and more,
as well as up to a little bit over $100,000 worth of credits
in Azure and GitHub and OpenAI and other places
as you go through certain checkpoints
as you sort of grow with this program.
So really tons of super support that you can get for your startup.
It doesn't have to be investor-backed.
It doesn't have to be third-party verified to participate.
All you have to do is go to pythonbytes.fm/foundershub2022.
Apply, and if you accept it, you'll get all of this support from them.
So make your idea a reality with Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub.
Apply today for free.
If you get in, you'll get tons of support.
So very nice.
Also nice Brian plots.
Tell us about lots.
Plots and command lines.
So I like command line stuff and actually with the thanks of Will McGugan,
we've got a lot of people excited about CLIs, but apparently Bob is also Bob
Bilder was from the pie bites duo.
So I like this article.
So actually I kind of skimmed the article.
Sorry, Bob, but making plots with your terminal with plot,
plot text plot. It's if you install it,
I can see the typo squatting. Yeah. Yeah. So if,
if you pip install it, there's one T in the middle. So it's PLO T E X T.
Um, so, so he was doing a, so he did,
had some code where he was looking at the plotting,
the frequency of their blog articles on the terminal.
Just so he's using some of their own data to plot stuff.
And he came up with like,
it's kind of cool walking through
how he grabbed the data and everything.
But I was looking at this plot going,
oh, this is a pretty nice looking plot.
I mean, it's totally blocky of course,
but it's a bar chart, so it's supposed to be blocky.
So that's okay.
And so then I went over and looked at this package
to this Plot X and it's cool.
Look at all these awesome plots.
I was looking at some of the various things you can do.
It's got basic plots for, you know,
just like sine waves and things like that.
But you can also do fill in plots and then multicolor.
This is kind of a lot.
You can kind of cool stuff you can do on the command line.
And then even data streams, which I was,
Look at that, it's a data stream going on in a plot
in your terminal.
It's pretty great.
Images even, so there's a cat image.
- You can do low cats all day long.
- Yeah.
- I was gonna say, the people that put together
those examples knew what the internet wants.
(laughing)
Had to do cat pictures.
- Yeah.
So, and then even subplots.
So the first example we saw, it has kind of all this,
it's not actually that bad of the interface.
It looks pretty, you know,
it's tedious to put together plots anyway,
but this isn't too bad.
But that cover image that we saw
is not a combination of images.
That's one plot that with subplots in it.
So it's pretty great. - I see, that's cool.
So within one terminal window,
you can do almost like a dashboard view
with different plots,
and they probably can be updating live and...
- Yeah, yeah.
So this is pretty exciting.
(both laughing)
I like it.
So anyway, that was just, I just wanted to say,
hey, if you want to plot on the command line,
you can use this.
- I'm loving this terminal.
Renaissance is so fun.
So.
- Yeah.
We make me make us feel like hackers again, you know?
- It does absolutely make you feel like a hacker.
I love it.
So good.
- So.
- All right.
On the next item.
- Yeah.
- Just hadn't really planned to talk about this,
But I just yesterday did an episode with Will McGugan,
seven lessons from building a modern TUI framework.
Brian, you covered that article last week on this show.
So I reached out to Will and said,
"Hey, we should absolutely cover this stuff
in like a deep dive."
So people- - Oh, I can't wait to listen.
This is great. - Yeah.
People can go check that out as well.
All right.
But let's talk about one of my very favorite things,
HTMX.
People who are not familiar with HTMX,
you really owe it to yourself to check this out.
It's what the web should have been forever,
but it wasn't for some reason.
It's like it stalled in the late mid 90s, I don't know.
And hyperlinks and forms are the only things
that can make requests.
You can only click on them to make it happen and so on.
Why should the entire screen have to be replaced
every interaction and all those things?
So HTMX is awesome.
and just put in little fragments of declarative code.
And it does all the cool work.
You can have a class on it if people wanna check that out,
but that's not the topic of today.
The topic is template fragments.
So Carson Gross over there wrote this article,
this essay called Template Fragments.
He said, "One way you might consider doing this is,
in HTMX, you very frequently have to first show the page,
and then as little sections of an update,
it goes back to the server and says,
'I just need the code, the HTML block
that goes into this fragment here
'cause somebody moused over something else.
So refresh it, related item or whatever.
He's a big fan of this thing called
the locality of behavior design principle
where instead of having a bunch of pieces
that cling together and reassemble themselves,
like if it could just all be right there,
wouldn't that be great?
So he says, normally the way that you would have to do this
is you would have to have your full HTML
and then a little subsection.
And then that subsection has the optional element.
But some frameworks, some template libraries
allow you to define a fragment.
And then when the code is requested on the server,
it can either show the whole thing
or just peel that fragment out of the HTML,
but you don't have to parse it into a bunch of small files.
Cool, huh?
It's really useful if there's no reuse.
Like if the only reason you would make that little fragment
is so that you could return it separately,
this is great because basically it means
you can just write the page once
and it can interact with different data,
different elements.
If for some reason that fragment
was being used in multiple places,
all of a sudden it's like code duplication
and that's not ideal.
But so we talked about this and hey,
there's some known implementations of this.
Apparently Django has the render block extension.
I created the Jinja partials and Chameleon partials,
which I'm not really sure.
I'm thinking I might actually take them out now,
that there's something for Jinja better,
which I'm about to talk about.
But nonetheless, those are kind of sort of allow this,
but more in the second descriptive way
where you have like a fragment that's separate but included.
But I was talking with Sergei Frixes,
and he said, "Between Jinja 2 fragments and Michael's,
My Jinja Partials, HTMX plus Flask is so awesome.
So he created this library called Jinja 2 Fragments,
which does exactly what I described.
So in Jinja, you have blocks,
like you might have your main HTML,
and you say, here's a block of main content.
With his library, what you can do is you can say,
either just render the template,
or you can now render block
and name just part of your Jinja template,
and that part comes back with the data you supply to it.
That's pretty awesome, right?
Like this one paragraph is the whole response
from the server, if you call render block
instead of render template.
- This is, yeah, this is super great.
Honestly, on Twitter, every time I see HTMX,
I'm just like, I am so like prepared to write a website
because I have not had the use case for a while,
but I'm very excited for the next time I will have one.
- I am exactly the same.
I'm working on projects that have been around
for six or seven years.
I'm like, if I rewrite this thing,
it's getting HTMX all over it.
But I just can't bring myself quite to do it.
But yeah, it's so good.
- So a couple of comments from the chat,
Vincent from CalmCode says,
HTMX is the bee's knees and CalmCode uses it a whole bunch.
I am not surprised, Vincent.
- Fantastic. - It's awesome.
- Yeah.
Yeah, if any website I create,
after knowing about HTMX is likely going to be using HTMX.
If you thought the answer was Vue.js or React
or something like that, you may really, really,
really wanna check this out first.
- Well, especially if you're somebody like me
that I'm like, yeah, I wanna put
this interactive stuff in here.
I don't really feel, I'm not an expert in JavaScript though,
so I'm not sure.
And so, but I do know somebody that knows a lot about HTMX.
So. (laughs)
- You might know someone.
- I've been trained very close to getting me off
onto a very long rant about HTMX,
but it's so good because even if you know JavaScript,
it wouldn't it be better to not have to think about,
now I'm running client code, now I'm running server code,
now I'm running the APIs to connect the client code
to the server code.
This one's in this language, it knows this.
That one's in that language in this location,
it knows that.
In HTMX, you just write it all in one place,
in one language, with the same context
and security model and everything,
access to the database, for example,
and then you just do what you need to do.
It's perfect.
- Well, and it's not really just about thinking
about two languages either.
It's somebody, there's a lot of people like me
that already have to think in two languages.
I'm thinking in C++ and Python.
So thinking about it in a third language
or a fourth language, it's like, you know, come on.
Having a place to stop plus, yeah.
- Yeah, yeah.
Final comment I'll make on this is
even people are using Node.js like HTMX,
where it's the same language.
It's also just about the context and location switch.
Oh, yeah.
I hadn't heard that.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah.
Seth, it sounds like you were going to say something.
Maybe I'll let you have the last word here.
Oh, no.
I was honestly just going to say that the more we can stay
in HTML, the better.
Because you have to know HTML.
So you might as well stay in it, right?
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
So well done, Sergey.
Check out his Jinja2 Fragments framework.
It is super new.
I don't know when it got released, but a couple of days.
These are like two and three days on all the commits here.
It is lots of days.
This is very, very new.
- Two to three days.
- Yeah, well done, well done.
All right, Seth, over to you for the final one.
- Sure thing.
So yeah, this article was announcing
something that's been getting worked on for a while,
which is generic generators for Salsa 3.
So what you're seeing there, SLSA, that stands for,
if I can remember, it is supply chain levels for artifacts,
levels for software artifacts.
So SLSA, and you pronounce it salsa.
And it's essentially-- - Of course you do.
It's a great way to say that acronym.
- Yeah, right?
Makes you hungry every time, which is the best part.
But yeah, it's basically a set of tools and standards
to a test and verified the provenance of artifacts.
So essentially where did this thing come from?
This file, this wheel, this jar,
depending on what like ecosystem independent,
whatever thing, whatever artifact you're building,
where did it come from?
How was it built?
And it, so it uses a whole bunch of different
like cryptographical primitives and OpenIDC,
which is basically magic,
but it basically allows you to prove in effect.
Okay, this was built from this specific GitHub repository,
this commit, this tag,
and someone can then later take this file,
this artifact that got built
and then verify that that was the case.
And so this is kind of like in the future,
hopefully be used as like a defense against
maybe like stolen credentials
on the Python package index.
That would never happen that that would never happen, right?
No one would try to fish and that would that has never happened other than the time of
the recording never has happened, I would say.
So yeah, it gives a good defense against this, right?
Because if you let's say you have a package and Python package index knows that this package
came from, you know, github.com/sethmlarsen/whatever, right?
And then in the future it received something that doesn't come from that GitHub repository.
it can flag that and say, hey, this isn't right.
Like this didn't come from the place that it came from before or wherever it's,
you know, supposed to come from. And the fact that this is generic is the big deal.
The part that ties us back to Python is that you can use it for wheel files and
source distributions. You can sign like anything. And so for example,
one of the Python projects that is featured in here is your lib three.
I've been trying to get into this and it's been really successful.
And so your lib three now does this,
and you can actually verify that it came from a specific repo
and that the wheels came from a specific tag.
And yeah, it's really interesting.
And this ecosystem is just getting started.
And so if you're interested in anything about supply chain
security and all of that, this is a great place
to start doing some learning about what
the future might look like.
Yeah.
This is great.
When I first saw this, I thought, OK, this is cool,
but how does that really help protect against
somebody sabotaging a package?
But then again, if you think,
and I realize if you think back to what happened
with some of those other packages,
somebody got ahold of the PyPI account,
not the GitHub account.
- Yeah, so this is like-- - And they just published
a new version directly, not through the CI, right?
- Right, yeah, so this is making,
it just makes the amount of things
that need to get compromised even larger, right?
- Right, it closes the-- - No longer do you need
to only compromise the email account on PyPI.
You have to also compromise GitHub,
and then if you have GitHub environments configured,
you need to compromise a second account
to review the deployment,
and so it just makes it even harder
to actually get that attack off, essentially.
- Yeah, and if you had to publish the actual vulnerability
to a popular GitHub repository to trigger it,
it would be discovered sooner, right?
Because people are like, oh, that's unusual.
Who has made this, that they've made this commit
and now it's doing this URL thing over to hackstore.com.
And right, like that's just another out in public thing.
Whereas if the direct account gets attacked,
somebody can just use Twine or something directly
to push it, a bad wheel up.
- Yeah, exactly, yeah.
No more pushing bad wheels.
You have to go through so many different hoops
just to do something.
- You need to flatten those bad wheels.
(laughing)
- Gotta inspect them too.
- Exactly.
All right, awesome.
This is good stuff.
Well, Brian, that's, no, do you have any more?
No, that's all of them.
Do you have any extras for us?
- I do, although I'm gonna try to make it quick
'cause now I'm hungry for some salsa.
So I wanted to, I'm like super excited
for this upcoming weekend.
I can't believe it.
So on Saturday, on Saturday, September 10th,
I will be in September 10th, I will be in San Francisco.
And I've got two events going on at Pi Bay.
So Pi Bay, awesome conference.
I haven't been there before,
but you've been there last year or something like that?
- Yeah, last year, and I absolutely loved it.
I would go this year if I wasn't on single parent duty
and had kids that had to go to school.
So I'm giving two events.
So one of them's a sharing is caring
pytest fixture edition.
I'm gonna talk about building.
Actually, I'm just gonna talk about packaging,
but it's not really about packaging.
It's about sharing fixtures with other people.
And because I think that that's a bigger need
than people realize.
So anyway, love fixtures.
We're gonna talk about that.
And then I get asked to be on this experts panel.
There's no with, we got, Zach Hatfield, Dodds, me, Andy Knight,
uh, which is, he's got a, like a automation pen, automation,
Panda, that's right.
Uh, Joshua Grant and Nishat Khan.
So it should be a fun panel and, it's at seven o'clock at night.
I'm like, wow, I think I really need to change my flight because I was planning
on flying out at 8:00 AM the next day.
And it's going to be tough.
So that's going on next weekend, I'm pretty excited.
- Yeah, PyLang says good luck on the talk, Brian.
- Thanks.
So how about you, do you have any extras?
- I do, I do.
A bunch, I'll make them pretty quick.
So Heroku, the platform is a service place.
They for 13 years or something have had a free plan
where people can go and create, what are they called?
Dinos or something, I don't use, yeah, dinos.
I don't use Heroku, so I don't know the terminology
and how all the plans break down.
But for a long time, they've had free plans,
but now they are canceling them.
And you will either have to pay or delete your projects.
So that's gonna affect a lot of people.
They have something like 13 million.
I don't know what's the right number here.
- Yeah, that it's been used by 13,
to develop 13 million apps.
So I bet many of those are free
and are going to be suffering this.
There's a interesting discussion on Y Combinator.
So you can check that out.
I'm sure it's very civil over there in the comments
as it always would be.
Yeah, but basically, you know,
Heroku was purchased by Salesforce
or they claim, and it may be true.
I'm sure that it is somewhat true.
They wanna cancel this because of fraud and abuse.
It may be more that they have to spend so much money
to fight the fraud and abuse
that it's just not worth it to them.
I don't know what it is,
but however you land on the, it's a good idea, a bad idea,
it's gonna cost money if you want to use this.
And it's pretty pricey, by the way.
This change will roughly double the cost
of a basic plan that uses Redis
from like up to $50 a month,
'cause you start bringing in your Redis cache
and your Postgres hosting and your dynos
and they all add up and then you gotta scale
this one or that one, right?
One of the reasons I'm not using it,
but not the only reason,
I just want a little more control as well.
But anyway, so if you have a free thing running on Heroku
or you were thinking about it,
you're gonna have to think again, find something else.
There's actually at the bottom,
there's a bunch of platforms of service things
that I've never heard of.
Porter, Railway, Render, Fly.io and Clever Cloud,
all of these things vying for this business.
They all look kind of interesting.
I know nothing about them.
You can check it out.
- I've seen Fly.io all over the place
and Python, Twitter at least.
- Yeah, okay.
- So that's, if I were personally picking one,
I would check that one out first,
but I don't know anything about any of them,
to be honest with you.
The last time I used Heroku was a long time ago, so.
I'd like to see some real comparisons
among some of these.
If somebody just saying,
there's still a place for hobby projects.
Just I wanna try something out
or you do something live
even as like a high school app or something like that.
I know, oh good, you're gonna show Python anywhere.
- I was going to, I gotta find the right link.
Here we go.
So I think they still have a free tier.
I don't know if they do visit much, but.
- Beginners free, yeah.
- The part that bothers me really isn't that it's,
I don't, there's a comment about,
comment in the chat about, it's hard to,
hard to, it's hard to complain about people.
It's a free service,
so they can do whatever they want, right?
Essentially.
Yeah. Oh, there's that right.
That's the right one. Yeah.
However, the jump between free and $50 a month is a big jump.
And that's my gripe about it.
So, anyway.
Yep.
I agree.
Not to turn this into a recommendation, but yeah, I feel like a lot of the cloud services
have really pushed how easy it is to deploy.
Because I remember initially starting with Heroku, the ease of deployment was the big
win for a lot of people.
And so yeah, a lot of cloud services where you pay for everything you use, but what you
use ends up being a few cents a month, which is a lot more surmountable than $50 a month.
So yeah, there's definitely a gap there, but there's not as much a gap there as there was
before.
Yeah, for sure.
Brian out in the audience says, "At my last company, we had to disable our free tier due
to crypto miners."
- Yeah, of course, I'm sure.
And Kim also has something, yeah,
stealing the computation there, but all right, anyway.
Okay, I didn't wanna go too far down that one,
but for sure, check out some of the options below.
DigitalOcean and Linode are also really, really good options.
This one, I'm full of rants today, potential rants.
This one comes to us from Extreme Tech.
White House, as in the US, bans paywalls
on taxpayer-funded research.
It has always felt super creepy and wrong
that we have the NSF, which pays billions of dollars a year,
millions for individual research projects,
to come up with scientific research
that all three of us and many people listening
actually pay for.
I'm glad to pay it.
I think this is really important.
It's important for the country, it's important for the world.
And yet, those results get locked up
behind really expensive for-pay scientific journals.
You've got to pay $5,000 a year to subscribe to this journal
so that you can read the article that, wait,
we paid to create that and we can't even get access to it?
So this article here is, "The White House
has updated federal rules to close a loophole that
enabled journals to keep taxpayer-funded research
behind a paywall, which I think is great.
So if you're, so I started in the data science side,
I think this might be relevant to you.
- Yeah, I'm curious how that's gonna get implemented.
- Yeah.
Me too.
All right, anyway, there's that.
And then, Seth, back to some of the stuff
you were talking about.
I mean, it would never happen
that someone would try to phish, wait.
Last week, somebody tried to phish PyPI,
maybe it was the week before when it started,
but not too long ago.
So over on darkreading.com, there's an article says,
threat actor phishing PyPI users has been identified.
Juice Ledger has escalated a campaign
to distribute its information stealer
by now going after developers who publish code
widely used on the Python code repository.
Don't wanna go too much into it,
but there's this group who had originally tried
to do typo squatting, if I'm correct.
They wrote some things as steal, some malware,
written in .NET, by the way, which Will was joking about it,
only running on Windows.
Hey, if they use .NET Core, they could expand out
the open source version.
Anyway, I don't want to give them ideas.
But they were distributing this malware
through these malicious packages.
And then they said, well, what if we get really popular ones,
hack their accounts, and then upload bad wheels?
So anyway, there's a bunch of background
on the actual people behind this.
So it's pretty interesting.
You can check out that article if you want.
There's also an R technical article,
but it doesn't have as much depth as the dark reading one.
- Nice. - All right.
Last one.
I think this is the last one.
Brian Skin, former co-host on the show,
who always contributes many interesting things,
says Python Bytes will definitely wanna check this out.
This is a tweet by Steve Dower that says,
we have published the details
of a critical security problem for Python.
It is very rare that we have direct vulnerabilities
in Python.
Like it was all fun to have the lulls about
Jenny, Jindy and log4j.
But this is not exactly that,
but it's a denial of service at that kind of scale.
So if you've ever thought I have a string
and it needs to be an integer,
and that string came from user input,
that's really bad it turns out
because there's a denial of service thing
that you can do by passing very, very long strings
to that integer parsing.
Seth, you're shaking your head like, oh boy, yes.
- Yeah, if you've been waiting to upgrade to Python 2,
now's the time to upgrade to Python 3, I would say.
- Exactly.
- Security support.
- And you shouldn't say,
eh, I'll just go to one of the older ones.
Like you need to get the 310.7 ASP.
I suspect they'll roll this back
to some of the supported ones as well.
So they'll probably back port it to 3.9 and 3.8.
But if you're on say 3.6, that's a problem.
That's a big, big problem.
Yeah, so expect releases for 3.7 plus in the next week.
This came out a few days ago.
This has now been done,
but this Twitter thread is super interesting
and that's what I'm linking to.
So y'all can check that out.
There was also some feedback like,
what are you doing?
How dare you fix this?
The way they fixed this is they said,
if you're doing base 10 parsing,
you can only use 4,300 digits.
Not the number to 4,000,
but places in the number 4,000 places,
that's a really large number.
If it's bigger than that,
basically Python won't be able to parse it before.
Brian, you do C++ all the time.
You have to think about, is this over 32,000?
Is it signed or unsigned?
Okay, it's unsigned.
All right, we can get to 64,000.
This is not that level of thinking,
but you kind of do have to think about
what the heck's going on here.
(laughing)
- I think it's a fair fix.
I think people are freaking out for no reason.
- Yeah, this one is really,
this one's wild too because it,
you just pass a long number.
Like it's not something sophisticated or anything.
This is, it also, it feels almost not log per J,
but kind of log per J a little bit.
- Yes.
- Where you can just do denial of service
by doing something very trivial.
- Exactly, yeah, you just try to set your username
to jndi colon slash slash hackster.com.
This is like, well, the number is a 1722117,
and then boom, now it goes to the website, right?
This is denial of service versus remote code execution,
which is clearly better, but it's not good.
- Just hold down the zero key for a little longer.
- Exactly.
Or if you're writing Python code,
you can just do times 10,000,
caret 10,000, you know,
power to 10,000 or something and send that.
- Yeah, string extension really coming in handy here.
- R pad, exactly.
Or Z pad.
(laughing)
Yeah, Pilating wants to send pi across,
you know, that's gonna upset it.
Anyway, I upgraded my servers to 310.7.
They were not available from Ubuntu directly.
That was still the old 3.10.6, which is unnerving.
But because I built mine from source,
I just changed the number 3.10.7,
rebuild and redeploy Python, I'm good to go.
- I imagine everybody listening to this podcast
is on 3.7 or above if they at any chance can be.
I mean, that if they're below,
it's not because they haven't tried.
- Yeah.
But let me point this out, I would say,
actually I wanna follow up with a couple of things,
'cause this is, maybe this should have been
the main item, but whatever.
One, we've talked about the reason you should upgrade
to Python 3 for a long time, and Brian, you and I
had lots of fun calling it Legacy Python,
although we've had people go into iTunes
and post negative reviews of the podcast,
because I had said disparaging things of Python 2,
but that's okay.
(laughing)
I'm willing to stick by them.
- Oh my goodness, that is wild.
More reviews, awesome.
- If you have good things to say,
also consider posting a review,
not just if you're angry that I called it legacy Python.
But if you're on old legacy code,
which is even 3.5, but is very seriously Python 2,
'cause the gap to upgrade is really hard,
these are the types of things that we warned about
that could be a problem.
And there will be no fix, right?
You better just say, well, we're going to make sure
the strings that are really destined to be integers
are really, really checked.
And I mean, it's not good.
It's not good.
So just one more reason to be on a shipping version of Python,
even if it's just 3.7.
Yeah.
All right.
Yeah, that's it.
Let's see.
Yeah, the change log.
One other really quick--
So you can see it's like actually described quite well here.
Patch by Gregory P. Smith and Christian Himes.
Feedback by a bunch of great folks.
Sebastian Ramirez sent a tweet out when this got fixed
saying, "Please be kind to your open source contributors.
"They just wrote 800 lines of code in a PR
"so that you can parse strings to integers."
So apparently it wasn't easy to fix, but yeah, I agree.
Cool.
Ready for a joke or actually Seth,
you got anything extras you wanna throw out first?
- Yeah, I had a real, hopefully quick one.
- Yeah.
- So I follow a whole bunch of game art accounts on Twitter
'cause I just love it.
Seeing what people create and one came by,
it was using #pixel, P-Y-X-L, did a little ding.
I'm like, wait a second, that's Python.
And then I just went back in this developer's Twitter,
a few tweets back and they just released Wasm support for this Python game framework.
I'm like, "This is incredible."
So yeah, it was a very fast journey of, "Wow, Wasm is everywhere at this point.
That's kind of wild that it's popping up so fast."
So yeah, version 1.8.0 of this retro game engine for Python, which they had a whole
bunch of really beautiful examples.
I think y'all have covered this framework before, but--
- I'm not sure if we have, but yeah, this is really cool.
- Yeah, so apparently they have a whole bunch of demos
that you can just play in the browser.
And I was really blown away
that I didn't even know this existed
and suddenly there's Wasm support for it, so.
- Awesome.
I love it.
Okay, that's a great one.
- Yeah.
- All right, how about we close it out with a bit of a joke?
Have you ever felt like you've had a hard day at work
and there's one of these problems like parsing integers?
you're like, how could possibly this go wrong?
I just don't understand what is happening.
Well, here we have a joke of a guy at a nighttime soccer game.
Apparently it's a little cool out,
but he's been running really hard.
So it's a picture of a guy whose head is literally steaming.
Like, not a little bit, a lot.
A lot.
I think that's a visualization of integer
being parsed into a string right there.
That's the before.
I'll read what the tweet really says,
and then maybe we can play with it a little.
The tweet says, "Just a JavaScript developer after work."
You know, like, what do you mean I have to do a new framework?
I just did a new framework last month.
[LAUGHTER]
I feel like this could be Christian Himes after going,
what do you mean parsing an integer is a denial of service?
I just can't.
The ints are wrong.
The ints are cursed.
Exactly.
Anyway, I'll just leave this here for people to appreciate.
we can call it a show 300.
- Yeah, nice.
- Thank you.
Yeah, thank you, Brian.
Seth, thanks so much for being here
and sharing the work you've been doing.
- Yeah, thanks so much for having me.
- Yeah, it's been great.
Bye everyone.
The Python Bytes live stream will be starting in a few minutes.